Okay, so what we're gonna do
is like start to think about
this idea of a variant in this case.
And so that starts on my end with a little
bit of type script to make sure that
we are actually getting what we think, and
I stop clicking on the badge in this case,
okay?
So, in React and typescript, I can kind
of create a type for the button props.
I'll say type ButtonProps.
And let's go ahead, and what I usually
choose to do and the reason that I like
the kind of passing a string in is that
you can kind of just create a union type.
So for us, we're going to say we've got,
not dangerous,
let's go with destructive,
I think what I promise to do, cool?
And so we've got this type,
you don't have to export the type.
I choose to export the type so that if I
wanna have higher order components later
on that kind of then take some
of the same props as a button,
I have access to that type.
That's the decision you can make,
you could not make as well.
And so then we actually say
that it's ButtonProps, and
this is gonna break, as you can see,
but there's children.
And when we think about the lowest
level of our design system, right?
We're basically creating
stylistic wrappers and
sometimes convenience wrappers
over basic HTML components, right?
And what we don't wanna have to do is
re implement HTML and all of the specs.
What I don't wanna have to do is, I don't
wanna have to say className is a string.
And one can look at the MDN docs to
see how many things you would have
to do particularly with input fields,
all right?
Sometimes you want to actually
say maybe you can't pass checked,
because they're all like, you can take
any prop you want to in an input field.
You might choose to get
a little bit more nuanced, but
as the kind of lowest level of our design
system when we go to implement it,
we wanna say like yes,
this is a superset of a button.
This is a button that takes all the normal
HTML props that a button takes, right?
ID, className, what have you ARIA,
labels, so on and so forth, right?
And then also these additional
things that I use as well.
And every framework has
some ways of doing this.
One of the reasons I chose react for
this workshop is that,
like reacts is actually for all
the smack that I can talk about react on
a given day has a pretty
decent way of doing this.
Where we can say component type, or
component props rather,
no I think it's component type.
Nop, it's component props,
that good old IntelliSense works.
And so you can pass it just
the name of the HTML tag.
So this will actually reference all of
the HTML props that a button takes.
So we're saying everything
that a button takes, right.
And also this new idea of a variant.
And that's really, like I said, you can
use appearance, you can use variant,
you can use kind.
The only thing that you've
got to think about is,
what's now gonna conflict with
what's already in HTML, right?
So, like, ID is a bad idea,
[LAUGH] but generally speaking,
and then also you gotta
think about reserved words.
And stuff like type can get
a little dicey as well.
So now you can see that we
don't have an error anymore.
And this now takes everything that
a button takes plus this new special one.
And generally speaking JSX,
like React, Svelte, Ember types are,
like HTML will take literally
any attribute and not complain.
So variant is currently getting
passed into this component, and
we don't have an error because it's fine.
We will kind of intercept
that in a second.
So yes, we gonna take a look just to
save us from writing too much CSS,
I started us out with some basic
CSS that we can use here as well.
You can grab a version of the CSS
as well from the course webpage.
So let's go grab that and pass it in.
Undoing the design system
add one little thing.
So here's our CSS and
we'll kind of paste it in.
Again, lots of little things in here
as well to make it all nice and
match along with that.
But what I want to draw your attention
to is we've got some of the basics of
a button in this case,
that background colour so on and so forth.
And then in here,
we also have the idea of the secondary
button which is just
a few little overrides,
colors along with the destructive colors.
And if I wanted to have the ghost one as
well, that is all here that we can use.
Neat, so we're gonna grab that.
We'll paste it in here.
And we've got this in place, and
now we want to pull this in.
Now, one of the things I'm going to deal
with real quick is that past Steve and
current Steve have a different
philosophy on this.
And so I've got the regular button
I'm calling this button-secondary.
I'm actually gonna keep them as
just secondary and destructive.
I'm using CSS modules, so
I know that they're scoped.
If this was just in a global CSS file,
you would want more whether or
not it's full on BemO or CSS whatever.
There's probably lots of secondary things,
lots of disabled things,
lots of dangerous things
in your application,
but I don't have to deal with
that in this CSS module here.
So we've got the CSS and
now what we can do is, and this is like,
you get this for free in Vite, I think
you get it for free in Webpack too.
Most modern things have
some way of importing CSS.
So I'm going to import styles and
yeah, under the hood Vite or
Webpack or what have you is actually
turning into a JavaScript object and
it's hashing the classes and
all that stuff.
But that's a different story for
a different day,
what we have are these styles.
So now I can pass in className, and
I can say styles.button, right?
And I should see, look, my button
started looking like a button, right?
Like we're doing the thing, and
we've got the secondary button, and
it doesn't look like a secondary button.
So we've got to deal with
that in a moment, right?
But we have the concept of some
button that looks like a button.
We're killing it.
And so we've got that in place, now we
need to think about the variants, right?
And we know that's a prop
that's being passed in.
So we can actually say,
what I'll do a lot of times in this case,
is I'll do a little bit
destructuring here.
Again, mostly framework agnostic, it
might be args and another one where we'll
take all the props, but I want my variant
and IntelliSense helps us out here.
So now the props is going
to be everything, but
variant, we've got that in place.
So what I can do is I can start like
we'll refactor this in a second.
I'll show you some really useful utility
libraries that will make this a lot easier
for you.
But let's just do it the kind of most
straightforward way because yeah,
it's one of those things which
is like you might not need it.
So we'll say that let className
equal that styles.button.
And I have one screen right now
because I'm plugged in here.
But what I will typically
do is I will have the main
screen as my editor or
even a larger 27 inch screen.
I will have storybook right next to this
and like hot module reloading is a thing.
And you don't have to worry about
the entire page or scrolling or
anything along those lines.
So, the important thing that you should
see here is nothing has changed.
However, we go into controls,
this is pretty cool.
Not only did it add the control for
variant,
which is not mentioned in
any of my stories yet.
It will be, but
it's not mentioned in any of my stories.
But it knew my three variants, right?
And this is like what I
was talking about before.
One of the reasons why, even if you don't
use TypeScript in your larger Codebase,
you might consider it for
the design system portion of the show.
That said, if one wanted to write JS Doc,
which I do a lot these days because
I realized that I don't always
want to compile Typescript to JavaScript,
particularly for
scripts and stuff like that that run
in CICD and stuff along those lines.
You can also write JS Doc,
it's just a little bit more verbose.
Both will work.
The nice part about writing JS Doc is you
can run it like a JavaScript file on node
and you can still have TypeScript
check it, which is super cool.
But we'll just use TypeScript, but the
fact of the matter is that React Doc Gen
went through the file and was able to
figure out roughly what the options
were and automatically populate
the control with that.
Now, can it do it for all the things?
It cannot, and sometimes we'll learn
how to give it hints later, but
we've got the basis in here.
So then we want to say, well,
if the variant is secondary.
Again, Tele Sense is my friend here.
We'll say that the className,
and we'll just append a space and
say style-secondary.
You can make an array and
join them all at the end.
Whatever makes you happy is I'm going to
replace this with library in a hot minute.
So we'll say variant destructive, then
add the className of destructive, right?
So now, if one was developing,
is it primary, is it secondary,
we can see that we have all the variants
of the button in this case.
So I'm gonna do the first one and
I'm gonna cut you loose for a second and
I will make a branch and
push it up so you can follow along.
But I am gonna do the first one here where
I actually set the variant in this case
now, mine has kind of set that
if you don't say a variant,
like the initial styles
are the primary button.
But let's go take a look at what that
looks like in our storybook now.
So I could say something like args.
I can say that the variant
here is primary.
And I can go down here, and
say that the variant here is secondary and
get all that in place.
And now if we go to the stories, we can
see that we've got the primary button,
we've got the secondary button.
And if you pay attention to
the controls on the right pane,
you can see that it has like
filled in the stuff for you.
You can always go ahead and change this
and see it all live and in real time.
This is for me, I'm gonna make a hard
pitch on why this is important for
testing accessibility audits and
all those things, but I just want
to sell you on the initial fact that as
a development experience, taking each and
every little component, even if you don't
quote unquote have a design system,
you're just building components, right?
Things that are not even reusable, we will
break out into various things as well.
And we'll see with all the various
tools up in here and a hot minute,
we'll take a look.
But what I would like to have you
do right now, is just go ahead and
add the destructive story.
>> What's your thought process regarding
I will create a separate story versus,
I will let the user use the controls.
>> Yes.
>> If we have five props with six values
for each prop, it becomes 30 stories.
>> Yeah.
So yeah, the question is, at what point do
we have one story and we click around and
stuff along those lines, and it will
point do we have a ton of stuff Stories.
And so one of the heuristics that I use
in my thought process around that is
later on, we're going to see
the ability to write like, effectively,
like integration tests, right?
Like, we wanna write a test that
then types into this field.
Well, by definition,
that's got to be a story.
Visual regression tests,
that's got to be its own story.
So it's like,
do I want to test this thing, right?
Is my like heuristic for
whether or not I write a story.
And I have found that on
one hand in the beginning,
I was like somewhat conservative about
the number of stories that I wrote.
And I did realize the stories arefree,
they don't really cost me anything.
Yeah, there's some like
visual clutter there.
But the main heuristic that I use is,
because like actually,
if I wanted to see a secondary button go
in here and clicking on it every time and
yes, it is stored in the URL.
And you could theoretically
like if I refresh,
it was all staying there
while I'm developing.
But like, if I want to have
a visual regression test, or
if I wanna write
an accessibility audit test.
If I want to test it in any
way in automatic fashion,
then I want it to be its own story, right?
I might not like for some of the little
tiny little things like will I write
one for when you've got the idea
of like a button with an icon,
I'll probably have story that is
button with icon will I write a story?
If I have a whole bunch of stories to
the icons, I got the buttons, right?
We'll see this later on like,
we're going to do the various of
button than we do sizes, right?
Already if you take primary,
secondary destructive small,
medium large up to nine, you add in
the ghost, you're up to 12, right?
So on and so forth, right?
You add an icons and
then you double all that, you up to 24.
What I will normally do is
I'll probably have a story for
my primary, my secondary and
my destructive button.
Maybe one for those in the disabled state,
because I might
not see that you can't click on it or
something along those lines.
And then I'll have a story for
a small, medium, and
large button, but
while I do destructive and large?
No, because generally speaking, I feel
like I know how that's going to play out.
If I have one for a destructive button and
I have one for a large button.
I don't until I get burned by it one time,
then I add a story.
It's the same way you add a unit
test when you find a bug or
something along those lines.
So I kind of like,
do I need to like run a,
I got on a May test is my heuristic,
right?
And then did I deal with a bug
around this, is my other one.